One-hot encoding usually works in some situations
but breaks down when we have a large vocabulary to deal with,
because the size of our ward representation grows with the number of words.
What we need as a way to control the size of
our word representation by limiting it to a fixed-size vector.
In other words, we want to find an embedding for each word in
some vector space and we wanted to exhibit some desired properties.
For example, if two words are similar in meaning,
they should be closer to each other compared to words that are not.
And if two pairs of words have a similar difference in their meanings,
they should be approximately equally separated in the embedded space.
We could use such a representation for a variety of
purposes like finding synonyms and analogies,
identifying concepts around which words are clustered,
classifying words as positive,
negative, neutral, et cetera.
By combining word vectors,
we can come up with another way of representing documents as well.